Bhupati 101 is presented by foolish
employee well I'm welcome to food
plotting 101 today we're going to cover
lie mean and fertilizing your plot now
there's two types of lime standard
agricultural lime which comes in powder
form and pail lime which comes in the
form of a small pellet that can be
easily spread by pretty much any type of
seed or fertilizer spreader pail lime
also becomes active in the soil more
quickly which makes it ideal for food
plotting however it can cost a little
more than standard agricultural lime and
it doesn't last as long in the soil over
time when it comes to putting lime on
your plot you almost can't put too much
on but a good farming standard like the
one used on the White River AG products
farm is 2,000 pounds of powder eyes lime
per acre pail lime however can be spread
at a much lower rate of 200 pounds per
acre the main difference between these
two types of lime is that the pail lime
is more of a short-term fix for your ph
problem and powdered lime while spread
at the proper rate is going to benefit
your soil for a lot longer time several
years before you need to add more when
it comes to fertilizer there's a lot
more options what and how much you put
on depends on what your soil test is
telling you the type of seeds you're
planting and even what kind of budget
you're on adding any fertilizer will
help such as your standard 10 10 10
but micro-targeting exactly what your
seeds need is gonna help your plot
perform better and grow faster for
example brassicas and turnips need more
nitrogen to grow big lush leaves so
you'd want a fertilizer with a higher
percentage of nitrogen now we're just
scratching the surface so make sure you
head over to see more deer calm for this
week's expanded article where we'll
discuss the tools for spreading lime and
fertilizer what the numbers mean on a
fertilizer bag how to develop a
long-term fertility and pH plan for your
food plots and more next week it's time
to plant
see you then
you